---
title:  "GLMC"
date:   2018-09-29 20:00:00
categories: [Projects]
tags: [Projects]
---
<b><font size = "5">GLMC</font></b>

<p>glmc Linear Algebra Library for OpenGL in C</p>

<p>This library is meant to be used as a C replacement for glm, with a plan of a wrapper for python.</p>

<p>The library contains implementations of all the operations on vectors and matrices which are essential for a basic linear algebra library. The supported types are vectors of dimensions 2, 3 and 4; matrices of sizes 2x2, 3x3 and 4x4; and corresponding one-dimensional arrays.</p>

<p>The library is capable of performing basic arithmetic(addition, subtraction, multiplication, division) on vectors and matrices. 

Vector functions also include finding the vector length, normalisation of vectors, dot product, cross product(only for 3x3 matrices), etc. 

Other matrix operations include finding it's transpose, determinant, inverse, normalised form, etc. Also some frequently used matrices like identity matrix, rotation matrix, projections matrices have already been defined.</p>

<p>The input_matrix functions allows the user to normalise the matrices as soon as they are fed into the system if the -NORMALISE flag is used.</p>

<p>Most of the code is hard-coded to ensure maximal speed performance</p>

<p><b>NOTE:</b> The vectors used are <b>column vectors</b> and all data stored in matrices is in <b>column major order</b>. Thus, the multiplication of vectors and matrices is defined as matrix * vector and not as vector * matrix.</p>


<p><a href ="https://github.com/iCoder0020/glmc">Here</a> is a link to my repository which contains the library and the driver program of this project.</p>